the strategy is not to let go of
expectations the strategy is to make it
impossible to have an expectation and
the way that you make it impossible to
have an expectation is to live in the
present to exist in the present to focus
on action instead of outcome
what are your thoughts on nofap does
Hindus promote that and health or mental
better
I mean look so so I think that there
there was a question about Brahma Katya
so well I'll get to know fat in a second
okay let's switch to meditation okay
after passively meditating is a
lifestyle for a long time is it normal
to feel the inside of your brain the
spot that is close to the reptilian
complex also a sense of oneness and high
intellect after passively meditating as
a lifestyle for a long time is it normal
to feel the inside of your brain also a
sense of oneness and high intellect the
short answer is sort of so it is
completely normal after meditating
properly for years to feel things that
other humans are you yourself have not
ever felt before and to also have a
persistent sensation of those things so
I have some sensations which if you guys
have seen like okay we're going to just
do this we're gonna do this the third
eye meditation alright so we're gonna do
some meditation so you know in the
spirit of like gorks
interview and sort of emphasizing
experience in order to answer this
question because i imagine that many
people don't understand what the [ __ ]
this person is talking about let's just
do a meditation and see what happens so
I want you all to sit up straight
and do this
okay and I want you to sit up straight
and then hover your middle finger just
like a centimeter from your forehead and
close your eyes
don't touch
just focus on the sensation of your
forehead
to see what you feel as you hold your
finger there not touching not too far
away you can move it a little bit closer
a little bit further
once you feel something maybe you'll
know
and what I want you to do is relax let
your hands come down and just focus on
that spot on your forehead
you
continue focusing on the spot between
your eyebrows see if there are any
lingering sensations
you
okay
so go ahead and come back
so tell me guys what did y'all feel
yeah man
so this is like this is what's [ __ ]
so like this is the thing you guys got
understand when I went to India right so
I was like failing out of college and
all this good stuff when I went to India
it was this stuff that made me fall in
love with meditation
right like what is that like what what
the [ __ ] just happened
like what the [ __ ] is that like when
Gork breathes and feels warmth in his
shoulders
like what is that
like what's going on here
and if you guys didn't feel anything
that's perfectly fine so different
different feelings the different
meditation techniques are going to work
for different people
right so like this is why we have
different kinds of meditation techniques
because not all minds are the same not
all people are the same so different
techniques are gonna work for different
people in different ways
and if you guys felt something like what
does that mean like is that the third
eye like I don't know like they're I
don't know I mean I I have ideas about
what it is I have beliefs about what it
is but there's no scientific evidence
for something being the third eye like
there's no such thing as the third eye
right so this is what I would tell you
this is what we know about the science
of meditation so there there is stuff
about what that is and if you guys
really want to know what that is we can
talk about it but yeah right so
but you guys feel something so this is
important so you guys have to like think
about how did someone discover this
concept of the third eye with someone
like sitting down like there was a yogi
like thousands of years ago and he's
like you know what I'm gonna come up
with like this [ __ ] anime level
concept of something called a third eye
and then like all these emotions in high
school are gonna watch it and think that
they're badass and then that's gonna be
a third eye no that's not how it works
right so what happens is people meditate
and then they start to experience things
and if you guys had some kind of
sensation they're like how would you
describe that to someone that's where
the the phrase third eye comes from so
third eye is like a yogi sit sound and
explores that sensation I'm still blurry
yeah I know I don't know why I'm blurry
there so it and so they try to come up
late and then what they do is they do
this practice over and over and over and
over again okay and so this is what you
guys do if you had a sensation you need
to do this practice every day and as you
do this practice you'll start to learn
more you'll start to understand more so
the first thing to understand is that
for before you did the practice you had
no idea what this was and your level of
understanding sorry I gotta move because
this is gonna so you had no idea what it
was and you you didn't understand
anything and then like you understand
something now you don't even know what
you understand but it's like night and
day the amount of knowledge or
realization that you've gained is like
night and day
and as you continue to practice you'll
start to gain more things that are just
as big you'll start to understand things
you'll start to like figure stuff out
you'll learn more about yourself and
then as you practice for a long time
then like this person is it normal to
feel the inside of your brain you're
gonna start to experience things that
you don't normally don't experience
okay and then can you say can you have a
sense of oneness and high intellect
absolutely you can also get all kinds of
other sensations I would say start with
three to five minutes a day okay yeah
right so like this is what I love about
stream is someone can ask a question or
if I just sit here and I [ __ ] answer
it after passively meditating as a
lifestyle for a long time is it normal
to feel the inside of your brain and I
could answer I could say yeah but like
that doesn't help anyone doesn't help
anyone right this is where like if you
guys want to understand meditation I can
answer questions or you guys can just
sit and meditate and then you'll get all
the answers yourself how can you get
shining on you do third eye practices so
this is I'm gonna let you guys Center on
a little secret
so sixteen years ago I started doing
third eye practices and I did them very
very religiously for lack of a better
term and also let you guys know
something else I'm actually a mediocre
psychiatrist I'm not actually a very
good psychiatrist the reason I think I
can do what I do on stream is because I
do third eye meditation so I think it
gives me an advantage over my colleagues
right like you guys just think about
this like who can come on stream and
just like talk to someone for 45 minutes
and and like understand them and
everyone thinks it's because I'm a
Harvard Andy that's not Harvard it's
because I do like honestly I believe
it's because I do third eye practices I
think it helps me understand people
that's part of the reason because I
started seeing things about people that
like my other people didn't see and I
got curious about it yeah and so I think
as you guys start to meditate and
there's some preliminary evidence of
this that meditation does improve EQ
right and improves emotional quotient
and all of this like like so like how
does that work so there's some
neuroscientific I'm sure there's
something going on like I don't think I
have like a mystical power although you
can talk about that kind of stuff I
think all these things that people talk
about in terms of like mystical powers
have neuroscience cordless so if you do
heart chakra meditation your capacity
for compassion increases I'm actually
like not a super compassionate person
and I just I do a lot of meditation
practices are out understanding because
I want to understand that's what I care
about okay all right I'm genuinely
interested in meditation and have tried
some of the pointers that you've given
in the past but I don't know if I'm
doing it wrong or not mostly because I
don't know what indicates that I'm doing
it right okay so the first thing is you
don't have to feel so some of twitch at
felt something right and this is like
the first time I taught this practice I
think the best description that someone
came up with is it feels like I'm
charging my laser beam you're charging
up your laser beam so the first thing to
understand is that just because you do a
practice and you don't feel something
mystical or spiritual doesn't mean that
you're doing it wrong okay what we're
shooting for is not necessarily
spiritual experience because that's not
a good reason to practice the most basic
reason to meditate is to control your
attention and if you can keep your
attention focused on one thing for a
prolonged period of time then that's
really the goal and even if you can't
keep it focused on one thing then you're
still actually doing a good job because
like if you do a practice like let's say
I'm telling you guys to concentrate on
your forehead and my mind starts to
wander and then what happens is I
remember and I'm like oh I'm supposed to
be concentrating on the forehead so I
bring the mind back
that's like doing a push-up the mind
wanders and I bring it back the mind
wanders and I bring it back so even if
you can't keep your attention focused
every time you bring the mind back to
what you want it to you're you're
practicing controlling your attention
it's like doing one pushup and so oddly
enough even people who don't think that
they're meditating properly because
their mind wanders a lot they're the
ones who are actually like working out
the most because you're like bringing it
back you're bringing it back you're
bringing it back and eventually you'll
get good at keeping it there so ideally
you'll have some kind of weird like
psycho spiritual experience which is
like cool and trippy but at the end of
the day what you're trying to Train is
your attention the other thing to think
about is if you've entered a no mind
state like if your mind kind of shuts
off you're not asleep but you're aware
and like time seems to cease to exist
thoughts seem to cease to exist that's
what you're shooting for as well so
that's really what you're going for
these concentration of attention and
enter in no mind states the spiritual
stuff is like unreliable next question
what's a good meditation practice that
doesn't involve focusing on the
sensation of breathing the one that I
just taught go back and watch the vaad
so focusing on your third eyes good you
can focus on meditations on sound if you
want to so you can do chanting I guess
technically I mean that involves
breathing but you know so I'd say third
eye practice is good yoga is also an
excellent form of meditation so if you
guys do yoga and you don't like breath
meditations that's fine if you guys want
to do another practice a hard practice
this is one that I've taught before it's
catch the moment of sleep so this is a
different brand of practice this is like
an investigatory practice and for some
people who don't like to just do
something there's another kind of
practice that you can give them where
they have to figure something out
like Gork is one of these people where
he's gonna respond really well to
investigate a practices
so if I give Gorka meditation practice
in order for him to focus his mind he's
gonna respond well if I tell him to
figure something out to pay attention to
himself and tell me what he discovers
because that's gonna restrain his
attention and he's gonna like look
because he likes to be good so I would
say that I would say that catch the
moment of sleep if you guys want a hard
one so you're laying down you close your
eyes and you're awake you're awake
you're awake you're awake and then you
fall asleep right there's a moment
you're awake and there's a moment you're
asleep
so catch that transition where you feel
yourself falling asleep and find the
precise moment of sleep haha everyone's
asking that's a paradox is that even
possible what if I were to tell you guys
that like if you hover your finger over
your forehead you'll start to feel like
a warm sensation or a trickling or a
vibration or energy it sounds the same
right so this is the thing this is the
whole reason I'm giving you guys this
practice because everyone in this world
right now is hyper ly analytical we use
our minds and our logic and our
reasoning to figure out everything so
what I'm trying to teach you guys is
experience that's what Gork needs right
that's what you guys need if you want to
change it starts with experience so
don't tell me it's a paradox go and try
it and then try it again and try it
again and try it again and try it again
then you'll learn then you'll understand
then you'll see okay so once saying I
tried that as a kid [ __ ] is impossible
huh I wonder what else was impossible
when you were a kid do you think that if
something is impossible when you're a
kid
it remains impossible for the rest of
your life do you think that like maybe
something changes as you get older hmm
nah you tried it as a kid I'm sure
nothing will change so you might as well
not try yeah like you know when I was 13
I asked this girl out and she said no so
I might as well never ask anyone out
again
cuz I had acne and I didn't know how did
I try to do surgery once I remember
they're like you know like this is
actually no longer funny but you have
someone around you is like dying when
you're a kid and you tried to save their
life and it didn't succeed it's like I
tried that once as a kid that didn't
work right so yeah so like you tried it
as a kid try it again if it didn't work
as an adult try it again try try try
okay
so here's here's the no.5 question so
someone is asking about brahmacharya so
I saw this question on brahmacari and I
decided to table the no fat question so
brahmacarya is usually is a Sanskrit
word that's usually translated as
celibacy but it doesn't truly mean
celibacy so brahmacarya is like a lot of
people think it means celibacy because
in other religions there's a word for
celibacy there's really not a good
translation for Brahman in English the
closest thing is celibacy what Brahma
brahmacarya really means is to dwell in
Brahma
so to dwell in the infinite
consciousness and so what brahmacharya
really means as it relates to sex is non
lustfulness so it means keeping your
mind in a state where you don't have
lust so and actually someone can be a
brahmacari and still have sex according
to my interpretation it's just you can't
be lustful so Brahma acharya a lot of
spiritual strength in a lot of
traditions comes from bromwich Arya
that's why like if you look at like many
religions have kind of celibacy as a
part of their spiritual path you know so
I I mean I think that there's a lot that
comes from that I mean there's some
theories about you know if you think
about like the life creating force of
semen is like an energy that we expend
when like that's the capacity to create
life I'm not saying any this is right or
wrong I'm just sharing with you guys a
particular view so that like you know
sweat like men for example like so we
have the capacity to create new life
through semen
and then so if we think about like
Bromwich Aria if you stop like sending
that energy out then it stays within you
and then you kind of like can become
spiritually powerful as a result I'm not
saying that that's right or wrong or
indifferent but that's the idea behind
Bromwich Aria and I think that you know
focusing your mind outside of lust can
be very helpful because you can focus it
on other things so okay so then the
question now we go to the nofap question
right so he's asking like what do I
think about no fat so let me think about
there's no fat ah can't find the no fat
anyway someone was asking about no fat
okay
so here's what I think about no fat so I
think like you have to understand that
as a human being
you're controlled like your behavior is
controlled by all kinds of things and
generally speaking when you have in the
basic problem that a lot of people have
is that they have like intentions in
their ability to make their intention or
reality is like weak so if you put your
mind to something it doesn't get done
that's the basic problem so I think the
biggest advantage of no fat is it gives
you a chance to grapple with that part
of your mind which wants to do something
it gives you a chance to conquer your
mind it gives you a chance to fight with
your mind so if we were thinking about
gorks interview you know like he has
these forces within him which drive him
to do things like the sense of
inadequacy the anger towards himself and
those forces control him so I think the
biggest advantage of nofap is that it
gives you a chance to understand how you
work where does the desire to jerk off
come from what does it gravitate towards
like does it gravitate towards
pornography but like is it the porn that
creates the desire or is the porn a
satisfaction of the desire
right so if we think about like if I'm
hungry and I want to eat a hamburger the
desire to eat the hamburger in the
hunger or independent things so with no
fat you know like I think it's useful
because you start to ask yourself these
questions you're like where does the
desire to jerk off come from what do I
do with that desire how do I feel
afterward I think it can be a good
example of something that you can
explore to help yourself understand how
you function as a human being as far as
the health benefits and stuff I honestly
don't know like I haven't looked at any
data that's that really suggests you
know like what kind of physical or
mental health benefits happen with
masturbation or lack of masturbation
what I do know is that generally
speaking like masturbation is a
relatively normal like matically is like
viewed as a relatively normal part of
you know human behavior this is for boys
only no so I mean when I say jerk off
sorry you know I should say masturbate
but it applies to women too okay so what
is Kundalini so here's another question
so let me just actually ask so we're
gonna talk about Kundalini Shakti in a
second okay so what's happening we're
getting graded
hmm okay no you don't have to be an
interview to us I mean you don't have to
be a streamer to interview most like 90%
of people that we interview are not
streamers or maybe that's not that high
maybe it's like 75 rated present but I
want to say like like three out of four
people that we interview or not
streamers yes so thanks for the rain who
raided us xcalibur II thank you do you
guys have business person have a
question
CX boggers thank you
thanks for the right welcome to the
healthy gamers stream my name is all
okay noise I'm a psychiatrist and what I
do on this stream is not actually
dispense medical advice and you guys
came in at a weird time because some so
we talked a lot about mental health and
helping people understand how they work
how their minds work I interview people
on the stream people who are struggling
in some way and tried to give them an
insight into like how they can move
forward in their life we talk a lot
about meditation and if you guys just
joined the stream it was weird it's no
we don't usually talk about sexual stuff
but someone had asked about celibacy in
the context of meditation and there was
another question about nofap and what I
thought about that so I was kind of
explaining like how celibacy works from
an Eastern spiritual tradition and then
doing you know talking a little bit
about masturbation because there's a
question about no-fat so I do QA and we
do a lot of meditation on stream and
things like that so what is Kundalini
so Kundalini is this so there's this
idea that we have the spiritual energy
that's seated at the base of our spine
and the imagery for Kundalini is it's
like a serpent that's coiled and as you
do spiritual practice the the kundalini
shakthi Shakti means energy so it's to
rise along the back of your spine it
goes through your different chakras as
it goes through a chakra it activates a
chakra and when it reaches the top of
your head you become enlightened that's
the basic idea behind Kundalini
Kundalini Yoga is about sort of
developing and harnessing different
kinds of energy so the third eye
practice that we were doing earlier is a
is a Kundalini practice I really like
Kundalini Yoga because I've get to feel
cool things when I do it and I just I
like the way yeah it's cool I feel like
I gained a lot from it but kundalini
yoga and meditation should really only
be practiced under the guidance of a
guru and can be one of the things that
can be very dangerous so I don't think a
lot of people realize this but
meditation can be dangerous
there actually case reports of
meditation induced psychosis so people
going crazy from meditating and we're
gonna be research nd again
okay so meditation is dangerous so you
should be careful and one of the and I
think Kundalini Yoga is a good example
of stuff that like you have to be
careful about so its chakra and real
note so in Naruto they refer to chakra
but without what I think they really
mean is like chi or prana that's like
they're not using the right word they're
using their like garbling the lingo a
chakra is actually like a gate that chi
or prana travels through
[Music]
okay
nerd took POG yeah absolutely the Chunin
exam is fantastic man
treating an exam is some of the best
anime I've ever seen really good falls
laughter that might be
yeah you guys don't think yeah I know
some stuff about thumb throw I do some
thunder it practices so yeah like so I
don't think you guys understand who
you're dealing with
all you guys see is the research Andy he
got something that the Naruto Andy
and yeah Rock Lee he's the guy with the
weird hair right
seminal kung-fu and semen retention no
idea man I don't know what that is okay
let's do so we're gonna do like 10 or 15
more minutes and then I got to stop
because I got to work tomorrow so let's
see okay let's go to procrastination
expectations
committing to long-term okay
so how do I stop procrastinating my life
is in ruins because of it okay
so the first thing to understand is that
so a lot of times when we talk on stream
I try to explain to people that like the
things that they think are wrong with
them or actually like right right so
procrastination you guys have to
understand this procrastination is not a
problem it's a solution so let's just
define procrastination for a second what
is what is procrastination mean
procrastination is waiting until the
last minute to get things done right
it's like doing a half-assed job with
like too little time at the end so but
if you think about it like
procrastination is actually an
incredibly efficient way of going about
doing things because let me just think
about this let's just think about this
for a second so if I have the option of
like studying hard every day and getting
an A on test or I can cram the weekend
before the test and get a B like which
one do you think is actually more
efficient like your brain is like okay
we could do all this work for an A or we
could do like a third of the work for a
B let's just let's just do the beat
right or the C
like let's just pass man so
procrastination is actually a very very
efficient way to move through life your
brain is kind of telling you like I
don't have to worry about that now like
why don't I just worry about it when it
matters and instead of that like I'm
just gonna do what matters now like I
can play like I can either two ways that
I can do this I can work on this project
every day or I can wait until the
weekend and just play World of Warcraft
or overwatch or dota today like that's
the better route so the cool thing about
procrastination so that like this is how
I dealt with my procrastination is that
I stopped fighting against it and I
started doing it more so if you guys are
stuck in procrastination what you need
to do is procrastinate more not less and
let's just think a little bit about what
that means I don't mean like wait until
like closer and closer to the end what
I'm saying is have more things to
procrastinate about so if you only
require if if it doesn't take you like
instead of studying for one week for a
test if you only need to study for one
weekend instead of taking one class what
you need to do is take three classes
because every three days you can study
for a test so you need to increase the
amount of work that you do and make it
so that every day is the last day before
something
make it so that every day it's like
something is due the next day so I'll
give you guys an example for my own life
I'm telling you it's [ __ ] crazy
so my second year of college I was
taking half a normal course load so I
went to the University of Texas at
Austin and a normal course load is 15
hours okay so my sophomore year I took
nine between six and nine hours and I
got like cease cease basically and I was
thinking like okay if I have a lighter
course load I can do better right and
then like my last year of college
instead of taking the 15 hours I took
thirty or twenty-eight one of the two
and I was a research assistant and I
studied for the MCAT and took the MCAT
and was it and was doing research so I
was like a TA and I was doing research
and like you guys may think like oh my
god that's terrible
and oh this is important so you guys
think I'm wicked smart right but that's
actually not true it's actually not true
the difference is that like I just
couldn't procrastinate like I had no
choice no I'm not a [ __ ] genius this
is important you guys so this is listen
to what you're doing right you guys are
answering with logic instead of
experience you're doing it again you're
doing it again this is wrong so what I
realized is that I'm gonna I'm not gonna
study before like the weekend before the
test and now I would have been a genius
if I got a 4.0 like my GPA was like a
3.0 I ended up getting a B and just
about all my classes and that that's the
thing right like if you guys are waiting
til the last minute just do more [ __ ]
like that's the solution of
procrastinating
don't stop procrastinating the problem
is that you guys don't have enough
deadlines like understand this
procrastination is waiting until the
deadline to do it so set yourself up
with a deadline every three days
actually try it actually try it and then
get back to me now a lot of people are
saying oh like it's so stressful you're
damn right it's stressful but are we
talking about stress are we talking
about productivity are we talking about
getting stuff done or having an easy
life let's be clear I'm not saying that
your life isn't gonna be stressful I'm
not saying that it's gonna be
comfortable I'm not talking about that
at all I'm talking about productivity
production how much you accomplished in
a short amount of time
ah so someone asks a beautiful question
what if I have four deadlines in three
days so let me ask you guys what has
actually happened when you guys are
[ __ ] procrastinating and you have
four deadlines and if you finals week
right like what do you do for finals
week
you don't actually wait until the day
before even you're procrastinating
[ __ ] brain will start studying like a
week in advance because you have you
know that well if you guys are not
showing up like I did that too like I
didn't show up for my fan of Spanish
final my freshman year but as you start
to procrastinate more and more like as
you as you pile on stuff you'll be
surprised try it and see what happens so
and and if you guys are feeling like
overwhelmed and stuff and you don't show
up I think there are different problems
so that I don't think it's a it's the
reason for I don't think it's the reason
that you I don't like its
procrastination that causes you to not
show up but I do think that one of the
simplest solutions to procrastination is
to actually stagger your deadlines more
and to do more and then you'll
automatically become more productive so
if depression and stuff like that are
involved if not showing up is involved
if shame is involved like that's the
reason I didn't show up to my Spanish
final it's not because I procrastinate
it's because I was ashamed there are
other reasons why you don't show up to
finals
and I would just I'd say try it so if
you if you procrastinate this is what I
would concretely recommend that you do
you try doing 50% more try doing 50%
more and see what happens okay next
question last question how do I let go
of expectations so I don't set myself up
for disappointment
okay great question so understand that
depression comes sorry a disappointment
comes from expectation there can be no
disappointment without expectation right
if someone tells me like oh this movie
is super awesome this game is super
awesome and it gets pumped up a lot and
then I go and play I'm gonna be
disappointed
yeah procrastinating those expectations
absolutely so here's what I do so
remember that expectations are about
outcomes right so an expectation is like
an outcome so like I want to get an A in
a class I want this I want to ask this
person out and I want them to say yes
that's what an expectation is it's an
outcome so the way that you free
yourself from expectations and the other
thing to understand about expectations
is that they they were in no man's sky
damn right
you want to talk about expectations no
man's sky yeah but so people could say
expect nothing but how do you
practically do that you can't just say
like okay I'm gonna wake up and expect
nothing no it doesn't work like that
it's the other thing to understand is
that expectation is about the future
right you can't have expectations about
the present it's literally impossible
expectation is about the future so how
do you get past expectation some someone
saying you expect the worst
no you focus on action not on outcome
you focus on doing not getting because
you can't stop your mind from doing
something but you can change your minds
direction right the way that we meditate
the goal of meditation is to clear our
mind but you can't tell your mind to be
clear you have to focus it on something
and then the
clarity comes so the way that you get
away from expectation is by focusing on
action so I want to get an A in the
class how can we reframe that to an
action I'm gonna go to class everyday
and I'm gonna study for an hour every
day that's an action it's not about an A
it's about doing I mean even then that's
an expectation right because I say every
day so every day is about the future
that's expectation you're sending
yourself up for an expectation so you
can't study you can't go to class every
day it is literally impossible to go to
class every day it is not possible you
can only go to class today
you can only study now right action can
only take place in the present action
cannot take place in the future can only
take place in the present and so what
you need to do is focus on today go to
class today study for an hour today
you can't even study for an hour that's
in the future what you can do is go to
the library you can get up right now you
can walk away from the stream and then
you can go to the library and as you go
to the library you can sit down you can
open the book and you can start to read
you can do that you can't study for an
hour you can't study for a year you
can't study for a decade you can only
study now and the more that you focus on
yeah adios because we're gonna be
shutting off soon so the more that you
focus on the action the more that you
focus on the present the more impossible
it becomes to have an expectation the
strategy is not to let go of
expectations the strategy is to make it
impossible to have an expectation and
the way that you make it impossible to
have an expectation is to live in the
present to exist in the present to focus
on action instead of outcome you can't
lose 50 pounds it's impossible to lose
50 pounds you can go to the gym today I
can do a push-up today right you can
only focus on the present
so remember that